Adding a Business Operation
To add a business operation to a production:

Add a business host, choosing the Outbound Host option.

For Outbound Type option, choose one of the following:

General—Use this to create a business operation other than the following types.

HL7—Use this to create a business operation for working with HL7 messages.

X12—Use this to create a business operation for working with X12 messages.

Workflow—Use this to create a business service for managing workflow.

Then choose one of the following:

(General or Workflow) Outbound Class—Choose an existing class.

(HL7) Outbound Type—Choose TCP, File, FTP, HTTP, or SOAP, depending on the form of input data.

(X12) Outbound Type—Choose TCP, File, FTP, or SOAP, depending on the form of input data.

Name—Specify a name; see Configuration Names.

"Configuration Names
By default, the name of a configuration item is the name of its underlying host class. However, you can assign a different name, to describe the purpose of the item, for example.

For example, if you have a business service class that communicates with a specific type of server, and you use it to communicate with the same type of server in different enterprise locations, you must configure the business service with different settings to communicate with each enterprise location, even though the type of server is the same. Each different configuration of the business service must have a different name.

The following rules govern configuration names:

The name must consist of at least one character.

The name can contain letters, numbers, and any printable character except for the following:

| ; , : [ < > \ / & "

Neither the first nor the last character can be any of the following: ! $ .

The first character cannot be _

The name (if is it one character long) cannot be *"

(HL7 and X12) Specify values for settings as provided in these reference sections:

Settings for the TCP Outbound Adapter

Settings for the File Outbound Adapter

Settings for the FTP Outbound Adapter

Settings for the HTTP Outbound Adapter

Settings for the SOAP Outbound Adapter

Display Category—Specify a category name for use in sorting and organizing items within the production. Category names are case-sensitive, and space characters are allowed. To place an item in multiple categories, list them in the Display Category field separated by commas (with no spaces around these commas).

Comment—Specify an optional text description.

Enable Now—Optionally select this to immediately enable the item.

Click Create.

Also see Settings in All Business Operations.